
Big Data Analytics -  Project Deliverable 1

Team Members:
Jaissruti Nanthakumar 
Janani Sri Adanur Rammohan
Ramanathan Sivaramakrishnan
Siddharth Jayachandra Babu
Swathi Rajendran
 
Communication plan to include project artifact repository
We are hoping to work on any real world dataset that could make an impact and provide solutions which we could relate to. We explored different platforms such aws registry, kaggle and open source datasets and finally came up with Chicago crime dataset, which is publicly made available by the City of Chicago website
Project Repository: https://github.com/RamanathanSivaramakrishnan/Big_Data_Project_Grp9
 
2)  Business Problem or Opportunity, Domain Knowledge (link to information on domain relative to data, problem or opportunity)
Website of Chicago Data Portal helps the users in providing the details of the crimes happening in the Chicago City since 2001 to present. We want to visualize the comparisons betweens different types of crimes, crime locations, location descriptions and also the years in which the crime rate was high and low using Machine Learning.
Though the dataset has nearly 7 million rows collected over a time of 20 years. The data will be randomly sampled from this set to make our dataset. Chicago crime dataset contains case_number, primary_type, description, location_description, arrest, domestic, arrest, community_area and location. By performing Exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, and visualization on the dataset, we can identify which features can contribute in identifying whether the theft will lead to arrest or not.
 
 
3)  Dataset: https://data.cityofchicago.org/Public-Safety/Crimes-2001-to-Present/ijzp-q8t2/data


4)  Research Objectives and Question(s) (what you are trying to describe or predict with the data)
Is there a correlation exists between the arrest with various factors
such as location, primary type, domestic, district, community area?
Does a particular theft type have a high frequency of getting arrested?
Is location being considered as the main attribute when correlated with theft.?
Identify which theft has high frequency or occurrence in the past few years?.
Identify which blocks are more susceptible to crimes?.
Does the arrest and the  type of theft have any correlation?.
